README.md, before:

# @metamask/module-lint

This repo provides a tool which can be used to analyze one or more repos, running defined checks that measure divergence from a template repo, and outputs a report of the results.

At the moment, this tool only processes MetaMask repositories using the [MetaMask module template](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-module-template) as a basis, and all of the checks are predefined and cannot be customized.

## Installation

This tool is designed to be used globally and does not need to be installed within an individual project.

## Usage

To use the tool, run:

```
# Yarn
yarn dlx @metamask/module-lint

# NPM
npx @metamask/module-lint
```

## Contributing

### Setup

- Install the current LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
  - If you are using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#installation) (recommended) running `nvm use` will automatically choose the right node version for you.
- Install [Yarn v3](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
- Run `yarn install` to install dependencies and run any required post-install scripts

### Testing and Linting

Run `yarn test` to run the tests once. To run tests on file changes, run `yarn test:watch`.

Run `yarn lint` to run the linter, or run `yarn lint:fix` to run the linter and fix any automatically fixable issues.

### Release & Publishing

The project follows the same release process as the other libraries in the MetaMask organization. The GitHub Actions [`action-create-release-pr`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-create-release-pr) and [`action-publish-release`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-publish-release) are used to automate the release process; see those repositories for more information about how they work.

1. Choose a release version.

   - The release version should be chosen according to SemVer. Analyze the changes to see whether they include any breaking changes, new features, or deprecations, then choose the appropriate SemVer version. See [the SemVer specification](https://semver.org/) for more information.

2. If this release is backporting changes onto a previous release, then ensure there is a major version branch for that version (e.g. `1.x` for a `v1` backport release).

   - The major version branch should be set to the most recent release with that major version. For example, when backporting a `v1.0.2` release, you'd want to ensure there was a `1.x` branch that was set to the `v1.0.1` tag.

3. Trigger the [`workflow_dispatch`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/events-that-trigger-workflows#workflow_dispatch) event [manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow) for the `Create Release Pull Request` action to create the release PR.

   - For a backport release, the base branch should be the major version branch that you ensured existed in step 2. For a normal release, the base branch should be the main branch for that repository (which should be the default value).
   - This should trigger the [`action-create-release-pr`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-create-release-pr) workflow to create the release PR.

4. Update the changelog to move each change entry into the appropriate change category ([See here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#types) for the full list of change categories, and the correct ordering), and edit them to be more easily understood by users of the package.

   - Generally any changes that don't affect consumers of the package (e.g. lockfile changes or development environment changes) are omitted. Exceptions may be made for changes that might be of interest despite not having an effect upon the published package (e.g. major test improvements, security improvements, improved documentation, etc.).
   - Try to explain each change in terms that users of the package would understand (e.g. avoid referencing internal variables/concepts).
   - Consolidate related changes into one change entry if it makes it easier to explain.
   - Run `yarn auto-changelog validate --rc` to check that the changelog is correctly formatted.

5. Review and QA the release.

   - If changes are made to the base branch, the release branch will need to be updated with these changes and review/QA will need to restart again. As such, it's probably best to avoid merging other PRs into the base branch while review is underway.

6. Squash & Merge the release.

   - This should trigger the [`action-publish-release`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-publish-release) workflow to tag the final release commit and publish the release on GitHub.

7. Publish the release on npm.

   - Wait for the `publish-release` GitHub Action workflow to finish. This should trigger a second job (`publish-npm`), which will wait for a run approval by the [`npm publishers`](https://github.com/orgs/MetaMask/teams/npm-publishers) team.
   - Approve the `publish-npm` job (or ask somebody on the npm publishers team to approve it for you).
   - Once the `publish-npm` job has finished, check npm to verify that it has been published.

Commit message:

Lay out foundation for this project
This is a fairly hefty commit, but it adds all of the code which
is necessary for an MVP version of this tool, which includes one rule
whose goal is to merely to check that the `src/` directory of a project
is present.

Right now, as this package is not published, this tool may be run within
this project using the following command:

    yarn run-tool [OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS]

There are two ways to run the tool. With no arguments, it will run the
aforementioned rule across a slew of MetaMask repositories:

    yarn run-tool

If you want to use your own list of repositories, however, you may pass
those. For instance, if you wanted to run the rule on `utils` and
`providers`, you could say:

    yarn run-tool utils providers

For help, pass `--help`:

    yarn run-tool --help

One thing about rules to note is that they are designed to be nested. So,
for instance, if you have a rule that ensures that `tsconfig.json`
contains a certain property, this rule will only work if `tsconfig.json`
exists. So you might make both rules and have the "`tsconfig.json` must
have X property" rule depend on the "`tsconfig.json` must exist" rule.
When this tool runs, it will print the results of these rules in the
same hierarchy that they were defined:

    - Does `tsconfig.json` exist? ✅
      - Does `tsconfig.json` have X property? ✅

README.md, after:

# @metamask/module-lint

This repo provides a tool which can be used to analyze one or more repos, running defined checks that measure divergence from a template repo, and outputs a report of the results.

At the moment, this tool only processes MetaMask repositories using the [MetaMask module template](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-module-template) as a basis, and all of the checks are predefined and cannot be customized.

## Installation

This tool is designed to be used globally and does not need to be installed within an individual project.

## Usage

To use the tool, run:

```
# Yarn
yarn dlx @metamask/module-lint

# NPM
npx @metamask/module-lint
```

## Contributing

### Setup

- Install the current LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org)
  - If you are using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm#installation) (recommended) running `nvm use` will automatically choose the right node version for you.
- Install [Yarn v3](https://yarnpkg.com/getting-started/install)
- Run `yarn install` to install dependencies and run any required post-install scripts

### Running Locally

To run the tool locally, say:

```
yarn run-tool [OPTIONS] [ARGUMENTS...]
```

### Testing and Linting

Run `yarn test` to run the tests once. To run tests on file changes, run `yarn test:watch`.

Run `yarn lint` to run the linter, or run `yarn lint:fix` to run the linter and fix any automatically fixable issues.

### Release & Publishing

The project follows the same release process as the other libraries in the MetaMask organization. The GitHub Actions [`action-create-release-pr`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-create-release-pr) and [`action-publish-release`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-publish-release) are used to automate the release process; see those repositories for more information about how they work.

1. Choose a release version.

   - The release version should be chosen according to SemVer. Analyze the changes to see whether they include any breaking changes, new features, or deprecations, then choose the appropriate SemVer version. See [the SemVer specification](https://semver.org/) for more information.

2. If this release is backporting changes onto a previous release, then ensure there is a major version branch for that version (e.g. `1.x` for a `v1` backport release).

   - The major version branch should be set to the most recent release with that major version. For example, when backporting a `v1.0.2` release, you'd want to ensure there was a `1.x` branch that was set to the `v1.0.1` tag.

3. Trigger the [`workflow_dispatch`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/events-that-trigger-workflows#workflow_dispatch) event [manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/managing-workflow-runs/manually-running-a-workflow) for the `Create Release Pull Request` action to create the release PR.

   - For a backport release, the base branch should be the major version branch that you ensured existed in step 2. For a normal release, the base branch should be the main branch for that repository (which should be the default value).
   - This should trigger the [`action-create-release-pr`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-create-release-pr) workflow to create the release PR.

4. Update the changelog to move each change entry into the appropriate change category ([See here](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/#types) for the full list of change categories, and the correct ordering), and edit them to be more easily understood by users of the package.

   - Generally any changes that don't affect consumers of the package (e.g. lockfile changes or development environment changes) are omitted. Exceptions may be made for changes that might be of interest despite not having an effect upon the published package (e.g. major test improvements, security improvements, improved documentation, etc.).
   - Try to explain each change in terms that users of the package would understand (e.g. avoid referencing internal variables/concepts).
   - Consolidate related changes into one change entry if it makes it easier to explain.
   - Run `yarn auto-changelog validate --rc` to check that the changelog is correctly formatted.

5. Review and QA the release.

   - If changes are made to the base branch, the release branch will need to be updated with these changes and review/QA will need to restart again. As such, it's probably best to avoid merging other PRs into the base branch while review is underway.

6. Squash & Merge the release.

   - This should trigger the [`action-publish-release`](https://github.com/MetaMask/action-publish-release) workflow to tag the final release commit and publish the release on GitHub.

7. Publish the release on npm.

   - Wait for the `publish-release` GitHub Action workflow to finish. This should trigger a second job (`publish-npm`), which will wait for a run approval by the [`npm publishers`](https://github.com/orgs/MetaMask/teams/npm-publishers) team.
   - Approve the `publish-npm` job (or ask somebody on the npm publishers team to approve it for you).
   - Once the `publish-npm` job has finished, check npm to verify that it has been published.
